Machine learning is a complex subject area. Goal is to introduce you to some of the most common terms and ideas used in machine learning. 
We will then walk you through the different steps involved in machine learning and finish with a series of examples that use machine learning to solve real-world situations.

Machine learning (ML) is a modern software development technique, and a type of artificial intelligence (AI), 
that enables computers to solve problems by using examples of real-world data. 
It allows computers to automatically learn and improve from experience without being explicitly programmed to do so.

THREE KEY PARTS:
Machine learning is part of the broader field of artificial intelligence. 
This field is concerned with the capability of machines to perform activities using human-like intelligence. 
Within machine learning there are several different kinds of tasks or techniques:

In supervised learning, every training sample from the dataset has a corresponding label or output value associated with it.
As a result, the algorithm learns to predict labels or output values. We will explore this in-depth in this lesson.
In unsupervised learning, there are no labels for the training data. A machine learning algorithm tries to learn the underlying patterns or distributions that govern the data. 
We will explore this in-depth in this lesson.
In reinforcement learning, the algorithm figures out which actions to take in a situation to maximize a reward (in the form of a number) on the way to reaching a specific goal. 
This is a completely different approach than supervised and unsupervised learning.


How is machine learning different?
In traditional problem-solving with software, a person analyzes a problem and engineers a solution in code to solve that problem. 
For many real-world problems, this process can be laborious (or even impossible) because a correct solution would need to take a vast number of edge cases into consideration.

Imagine, for example, the challenging task of writing a program that can detect if a cat is present in an image. Solving this in the traditional way would require careful attention to details like varying lighting conditions, different types of cats, and various poses a cat might be in.
In machine learning, the problem solver abstracts away part of their solution as a flexible component called a model, and uses a special program called a model training algorithm to adjust that model to real-world data. 
The result is a trained model which can be used to predict outcomes that are not part of the dataset used to train it.
In a way, machine learning automates some of the statistical reasoning and pattern-matching the problem solver would traditionally do.
The overall goal is to use a model created by a model-training algorithm to generate predictions or find patterns in data that can be used to solve a problem.


Understanding the terminology

Machine learning is a new field created at the intersection of statistics, applied math, and computer science.
Because of the rapid and recent growth of machine learning, each of these fields might use slightly different formal definitions of the same terms.

Terminology
Machine learning, or ML, is a modern software development technique that enables computers to solve problems by using examples of real-world data.
In supervised learning, every training sample from the dataset has a corresponding label or output value associated with it. 
As a result, the algorithm learns to predict labels or output values.
In reinforcement learning, the algorithm figures out which actions to take in a situation to maximize a reward (in the form of a number) on the way to reaching a specific goal.
In unsupervised learning, there are no labels for the training data. 
A machine learning algorithm tries to learn the underlying patterns or distributions that govern the data.


Components of machine learning
Nearly all tasks solved with machine learning involve three primary components:

A machine learning model
A model training algorithm
A model inference algorithm

Reviewing the clay analogy of machine learning
You can understand the relationships between these components by imagining the stages of crafting a teapot from a lump of clay.
First, you start with a block of raw clay. At this stage, the clay can be molded into many different forms and be used to serve many different purposes. You decide to use this lump of clay to make a teapot.
So how do you create this teapot? You inspect and analyze the raw clay and decide how to change it to make it look more like the teapot you have in mind.
Next, you mold the clay to make it look more like the teapot that is your goal.
Congratulations! You've completed your teapot. You've inspected the materials, evaluated how to change them to reach your goal, and made the changes. 
The teapot is now ready for your enjoyment.


What are machine learning models?
A machine learning model, like a piece of clay, can be molded into many different forms and serve many different purposes. 
A more technical definition would be that a machine learning model is a block of code or framework that can be modified to solve different but related problems based on the data provided.

Important
A model is an extremely generic program (or block of code), made specific by the data used to train it. It is used to solve different problems.

Two simple examples
Example 1
Imagine you own a snow cone cart, and you have some data about the average number of snow cones sold per day based on the high temperature. 
You want to better understand this relationship to make sure you have enough inventory on hand for those high sales days.

Snow cone Sold vs temp.
In the graph above, you can see one example of a model, a linear regression model (indicated by the solid line). 
You can see that, based on the data provided, the model predicts that as the high temperature for the day increases so do the average number of snow cones sold. Sweet!

Example 2
Let's look at a different example that uses the same linear regression model, but with different data and a completely different question to answer.
Imagine that you work in higher education and you want to better understand the relationship between the cost of enrollment and the number of students attending college. In this example, our model predicts that as the cost of tuition increases, the number of people attending college is likely to decrease.

Student enrollment vs Tuition cost
Using the same linear regression model (indicated by the solid line), you can see that the number of people attending college does go down as the cost increases.
Both examples showcase that a model is a generic program made specific by the data used to train it.
